as a test of our deep understanding of
arrays let's talk about two-dimensional
arrays in Java now and so we're not
gonna be using these in class for a
little while but just to get acquainted
with them let's check them out today
so here I'm gonna have a bunch of code
which I'm just gonna jump straight to
the visualizer on this one which is
going to allow us to create arrays of
array references okay so the syntax in
Java from making what another language
is well what you might call a
two-dimensional array is as follows when
I do int bracket int square braces
square braces what it's saying is make
for me an array of integer array
references okay
so here we get one box and it's allowed
to store a reference to a list of enter
a references okay so let's let's see an
example here so when I say Pascal's
triangle equals new and for what that's
going to do is going to create an array
of int array references each of these is
allowed to point at an array okay an
array of what's of integers and this
right here is a 64-bit address of this
array of array references okay get a
little but don't worry now just as we
could
anytime we could create a variable of
the type of these boxes so what's the
type of each of these boxes in Turay
references so I can make a new such
variable and assign it equal and copy of
the bits okay all right I'll have a more
interesting example down here okay so
next up we could say you know what I'm
tired of this being null in fact I want
to point it at an interact because
that's what it's for right this is an
array for looking at interets so we're
gonna do is create here an array of size
one which contains the value one and
point this at the visualizer does that
for us
so next step we say okay you know what
I'm tired of this being null so I'm
gonna make a new array of to size two
and point this out okay kind of a funny
way of drawing this but there you go now
we say okay same deal we're gonna repeat
this and create two more interest and
point our point
okay so actually if you are visualizing
the stuff later and for your reference
there is an option same one we had
before which prefers non nesting layouts
where we get box and pointer diagrams it
also makes us have vertical layouts okay
so if we rerun that now we get what
might be a little easier to read okay
maybe alright next up we have road to
this line what it does is it creates a
box of 64 bits that can store a
reference to an int array one of these
and then we point that at Pascal's
triangle to so what do we do we copy the
bits all right what are the bits this
arrow some other words road to points of
this so what I mean what's interesting
about this is that we could actually
modify our original Pascal's triangle
object up here using this road to
reference so when you are mine you might
think of it as okay well it's like a
sequence of arrays and it's called
Pascal's triangle I can actually get a
hook inside like the middle of it right
I'm just going right into the belly of
that Pascal's triangle and I can for
example say road to item 1 is now -5 so
be aware that's possible because they're
always alternate ways to instantiate an
array well we've seen this one already
so if we say matrix and equals new man
actually my go to beam on vertical
layout for this part so when I one way
to create one of these array of arrays
is the syntax we had before so that does
just what we saw before it creates an
array of array references but Java
actually also allows us to specify a
number here so what this number means
says you know what I don't want just a
bunch of empty array references I want
you to Java create for me a bunch of
default arrays of size 4 that will all
get the default value for the type here
so in other words this new matrix
declaration is going to not create just
the array of int references but also
these actual integer arrays so this
creates you can think of it as if we
look at this carefully this line
this line that we're about to run it
creates one array okay this line
actually creates five arrays this array
Plus this this this and this okay so
five total arrays are created one of
references for of integers and if you
want to create a literal array right if
you decide that you don't want to have
this obviously very wordy way of
declaring Pascal's triangle there is a
literal notation for doing
two-dimensional arrays so in that case
we would just get the same thing laid
out a little differently for some reason
okay so that is the heart of what makes
a two-dimensional array a
two-dimensional array there are actually
references of references so you may find
this a little hard to fully croc but
it'll be okay because later when we do
this assignment called seam carving you
will get a better camp okay that'll be
much like yeah and these are just
repeating some points that I said during
the earlier demo so this very first line
it creates one box of 64 bits that can
refer to an array or that refers to an
array of interets okay I'm entering
references
all right see confounding this next line
though it in this case creates four
additional boxes and each of them is
null so this is one box four boxes down
here if we look at this line just to
pick out what it does total well it
first creates an array which has three
boxes it puts the numbers one two and
one in them and then it assigns the
address to this box okay
and that's this whole set before this
one makes one total array this is five
grades
okay so just some highlights of
terminology that maybe are not that
interesting to listen to me say but you
can convince yourself of the truth of
these statements okay so now an exercise
for you that I'd like you to ponder okay
knowing what we've just said yeah
because just watching me do that
probably not gonna lead to a great deal
of understanding I want you to tell me
here when I run this code okay and
create this these other variables what
is going to be the value of x 0 0 and W
0 0 when this code completes and in this
case what I want us to have you do is
click on the
answer link if you want the answer and
if you really hate going to a website
opening the slides and clicking the link
I put it at the top so you can type it
in manually